Faction Fleets

Faction fleets are groups of NPC ships associated with a specific faction, reducing the player's standing when destroyed by them. Faction ships are neutral towards the player unless they are damaged or the player has -1500 standing with the faction.

### Spawn Locations

* For all factions:
  + Around non-neutral stations.
* Just for the warring factions:
  + Traveling fleets around warp hubs and rings of any non-core system;
  + Patroling around system headquarters;
  + Patroling or attacking warfare structures;
  + Generated by Fleet Hangars and Reinforcement Beacons.
* Just for the Syndicate:
  + Around frontier outposts.

## Faction Ships

### Hull types

Similar to pirates, the neutral factions use ships from neutral ship lines, flying fighters, interceptors, corvettes, frigates, and destroyers. The Foralkan, Kavani, and Lycentian fleets exclusively use ships from their respective ship lines, flying fighters, interceptors, corvettes, frigates, and destroyers, as well as cruisers and battleships.

### Tiers

The ships of the warring factions can have 4 different tiers: standard/no title (with one-fifth the amount of hitpoints that the ship has when piloted by a player) and Veteran (half the amount), using the faction's tier 4 standing/pilot skin; Ace (same amount) and Imperial, Sovereign and Federal (with double the amount), using the captain/preator military rank skins.

### Loot

* Most faction ship wrecks usually only have small amounts of metal scraps.
* Standard, Veteran and Ace ships drop standing items from their faction.
* Imperial, Sovereign and Federal ship wrecks always have no loot.